README.md, before:

@ember/render-modifiers
==============================================================================

Provides element modifiers that can be used to hook into specific portions of
the rendering lifecycle.


Compatibility
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Ember.js v2.18 or above
* Ember CLI v2.13 or above


Installation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

```
ember install @ember/render-modifiers
```


Usage Examples
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Example: Scrolling an element to a position

This sets the scroll position of an element, and updates it whenever the scroll
position changes.

Before:

```hbs
{{yield}}
```
```js
export default Component.extend({
  classNames: ['scroll-container'],

  didRender() {
    this.element.scrollTop = this.scrollPosition;
  }
});
```

After:

```hbs
<div
  {{did-insert this.setScrollPosition @scrollPosition}}
  {{did-update this.setScrollPosition @scrollPosition}}

  class="scroll-container"
>
  {{yield}}
</div>
```
```js
export default class Component.extend({
  setScrollPosition(element, [scrollPosition]) {
    element.scrollTop = scrollPosition;
  }
})
```

#### Example: Adding a class to an element after render for CSS animations

This adds a CSS class to an alert element in a conditional whenever it renders
to fade it in, which is a bit of an extra hoop. For CSS transitions to work, we
need to append the element _without_ the class, then add the class after it has
been appended.

Before:

```hbs
{{#if this.shouldShow}}
  <div class="alert">
    {{yield}}
  </div>
{{/if}}
```
```js
export default Component.extend({
  didRender() {
    let alert = this.element.querySelector('.alert');

    if (alert) {
      alert.classList.add('fade-in');
    }
  }
});
```

After:

```hbs
{{#if this.shouldShow}}
  <div {{did-insert this.fadeIn}} class="alert">
    {{yield}}
  </div>
{{/if}}
```
```js
export default Component.extend({
  fadeIn(element) {
    element.classList.add('fade-in');
  }
});
```

#### Example: Resizing text area

One key thing to know about `{{did-update}}` is it will not rerun whenever the
_contents_ or _attributes_ on the element change. For instance, `{{did-update}}`
will _not_ rerun when `@type` changes here:

```hbs
<div {{did-update this.setupType}} class="{{@type}}"></div>
```

If `{{did-update}}` should rerun whenever a value changes, the value should be
passed as a parameter to the modifier. For instance, a textarea which wants to
resize itself to fit text whenever the text is modified could be setup like
this:

```hbs
<textarea {{did-update this.resizeArea @text}}>
  {{@text}}
</textarea>
```
```js
export default Component.extend({
  resizeArea(element) {
    element.style.height = `${element.scrollHeight}px`;
  }
});
```

#### Example: `ember-composability-tools` style rendering

This is the type of rendering done by libraries like `ember-leaflet`, which use
components to control the _rendering_ of the library, but without any templates
themselves. The underlying library for this is [here](https://github.com/miguelcobain/ember-composability-tools).
This is a simplified example of how you could accomplish this with Glimmer
components and element modifiers.

Node component:

```js
// components/node.js
export default Component.extend({
  init() {
    super(...arguments);
    this.children = new Set();

    this.parent.registerChild(this);
  }

  willDestroy() {
    super(...arguments);

    this.parent.unregisterChild(this);
  }

  registerChild(child) {
    this.children.add(child);
  }

  unregisterChild(child) {
    this.children.delete(child);
  }

  didInsertNode(element) {
    // library setup code goes here

    this.children.forEach(c => c.didInsertNode(element));
  }

  willDestroyNode(element) {
    // library teardown code goes here

    this.children.forEach(c => c.willDestroyNode(element));
  }
}
```
```hbs
<!-- components/node.hbs -->
{{yield (component "node" parent=this)}}
```

Root component:

```js
// components/root.js
import NodeComponent from './node.js';

export default NodeComponent.extend();
```
```hbs
<!-- components/root.hbs -->
<div
  {{did-insert (action this.didInsertNode)}}
  {{will-destroy (action this.willDestroyNode)}}
>
  {{yield (component "node" parent=this)}}
</div>
```

Usage:

```hbs
<Root as |node|>
  <node as |node|>
    <node />
  </node>
</Root>
```

License
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

Add warning about when to use this package

README.md, after:

@ember/render-modifiers
==============================================================================

Provides element modifiers that can be used to hook into specific portions of
the rendering lifecycle.

### When to use these modifiers (and when *not* to use them)

The modifiers provided in this package are ideal for quickly migrating away from 
classic Ember components to Glimmer components, because they largely allow you to 
use the same lifecycle hook methods you've already written while attaching them to 
these modifiers. For example, a `didInsertElement` hook could be called by 
`{{did-insert this.didInsertElement}}` to ease your migration process.

However, we strongly encourage you to take this opportunity to rethink your 
functionality rather than use these modifiers as a crutch. In many cases, classic 
lifecycle hooks like `didInsertElement` can be rewritten as custom modifiers that 
internalize functionality manipulating or generating state from a DOM element. 
Other times, you may find that a modifier is not the right fit for that logic at all, 
in which case it's worth revisiting the design to find a better pattern.

Either way, we recommend using these modifiers with caution. They are very useful for 
quickly bridging the gap between classic components and Glimmer components, but they 
are still generally an anti-pattern. We recommend considering a custom modifier in 
most use-cases where you might want to reach for this package.


Compatibility
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Ember.js v2.18 or above
* Ember CLI v2.13 or above


Installation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

```
ember install @ember/render-modifiers
```


Usage Examples
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Example: Scrolling an element to a position

This sets the scroll position of an element, and updates it whenever the scroll
position changes.

Before:

```hbs
{{yield}}
```
```js
export default Component.extend({
  classNames: ['scroll-container'],

  didRender() {
    this.element.scrollTop = this.scrollPosition;
  }
});
```

After:

```hbs
<div
  {{did-insert this.setScrollPosition @scrollPosition}}
  {{did-update this.setScrollPosition @scrollPosition}}

  class="scroll-container"
>
  {{yield}}
</div>
```
```js
export default class Component.extend({
  setScrollPosition(element, [scrollPosition]) {
    element.scrollTop = scrollPosition;
  }
})
```

#### Example: Adding a class to an element after render for CSS animations

This adds a CSS class to an alert element in a conditional whenever it renders
to fade it in, which is a bit of an extra hoop. For CSS transitions to work, we
need to append the element _without_ the class, then add the class after it has
been appended.

Before:

```hbs
{{#if this.shouldShow}}
  <div class="alert">
    {{yield}}
  </div>
{{/if}}
```
```js
export default Component.extend({
  didRender() {
    let alert = this.element.querySelector('.alert');

    if (alert) {
      alert.classList.add('fade-in');
    }
  }
});
```

After:

```hbs
{{#if this.shouldShow}}
  <div {{did-insert this.fadeIn}} class="alert">
    {{yield}}
  </div>
{{/if}}
```
```js
export default Component.extend({
  fadeIn(element) {
    element.classList.add('fade-in');
  }
});
```

#### Example: Resizing text area

One key thing to know about `{{did-update}}` is it will not rerun whenever the
_contents_ or _attributes_ on the element change. For instance, `{{did-update}}`
will _not_ rerun when `@type` changes here:

```hbs
<div {{did-update this.setupType}} class="{{@type}}"></div>
```

If `{{did-update}}` should rerun whenever a value changes, the value should be
passed as a parameter to the modifier. For instance, a textarea which wants to
resize itself to fit text whenever the text is modified could be setup like
this:

```hbs
<textarea {{did-update this.resizeArea @text}}>
  {{@text}}
</textarea>
```
```js
export default Component.extend({
  resizeArea(element) {
    element.style.height = `${element.scrollHeight}px`;
  }
});
```

#### Example: `ember-composability-tools` style rendering

This is the type of rendering done by libraries like `ember-leaflet`, which use
components to control the _rendering_ of the library, but without any templates
themselves. The underlying library for this is [here](https://github.com/miguelcobain/ember-composability-tools).
This is a simplified example of how you could accomplish this with Glimmer
components and element modifiers.

Node component:

```js
// components/node.js
export default Component.extend({
  init() {
    super(...arguments);
    this.children = new Set();

    this.parent.registerChild(this);
  }

  willDestroy() {
    super(...arguments);

    this.parent.unregisterChild(this);
  }

  registerChild(child) {
    this.children.add(child);
  }

  unregisterChild(child) {
    this.children.delete(child);
  }

  didInsertNode(element) {
    // library setup code goes here

    this.children.forEach(c => c.didInsertNode(element));
  }

  willDestroyNode(element) {
    // library teardown code goes here

    this.children.forEach(c => c.willDestroyNode(element));
  }
}
```
```hbs
<!-- components/node.hbs -->
{{yield (component "node" parent=this)}}
```

Root component:

```js
// components/root.js
import NodeComponent from './node.js';

export default NodeComponent.extend();
```
```hbs
<!-- components/root.hbs -->
<div
  {{did-insert (action this.didInsertNode)}}
  {{will-destroy (action this.willDestroyNode)}}
>
  {{yield (component "node" parent=this)}}
</div>
```

Usage:

```hbs
<Root as |node|>
  <node as |node|>
    <node />
  </node>
</Root>
```

License
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md).
